those of you have been watching my
channel for a long time have heard me
warn again and again about the dangers
of medicalizing
a problem in 2019 it's very easy for
people to leap to a diagnosis when
really all they've got is a description
of a behavior or even just a complaint
people want to leap to the conclusion
that their parents are narcissists that
their boyfriend has bipolar disorder
they want to medicalize problems and
then they think of the medical problem
as something other than the person
themselves oh it's not you it's your
depression oh it's not you it's her
bipolar disorder and this is ushered in
a kind of very dangerous poetry into our
society because these diagnoses they are
no more medically real and they are no
more scientifically valid than poetic
memes than literary tropes but there are
tropes that people cling to people
develop various in my opinion unhealthy
forms of self justification a
justification for the behaviors of
others coming out of these diagnoses and
that the medicalization of problems and
this does not exist within the spectrum
of depression and formal psychiatry in
psychotherapy only in our own lives here
we got a diagnosis that proved to be
false a diagnosis that you know suddenly
spurred my girlfriend Melissa to change
your whole life dramatically she packed
up from Taiwan and relocated back to
United States to get more tests spoilers
the test she got in the United States
proved that the first two tests were
wrong but some we got a diagnosis that
didn't just offer us the possibility of
explaining her acne as something caused
by something other than our acne that
her acne wasn't just acne it also really
provided us with the appealing
possibility or the appealing illusion
that a lot of the problem
that our relationship had been caused by
an underlying hormonal condition most
likely PCOS which is polycystic ovarian
syndrome or quite possibly even a
thyroid problem so you know thyroid is
really great if I read problems great
mood swings also weight gain and hair
and a lot of other symptoms that Melissa
didn't have but um the I know it may
sound ridiculous but in the same way
that a lot of people think it's a relief
to get a diagnosis of depression or even
bipolar oh okay now I have an excuse now
I have a peg on the wall I can hang my
hat on sort of thing
there was definitely a strange sense we
were we were both aware of it we
discussed it openly you know we said oh
well if the problem is hormonal
if the problem is PCOS or if the problem
is a thyroid condition well maybe when
we cure this problem we'll also cure a
lot of the the problems this
relationship so in terms of the jump in
to the conclusion of this video
sometimes acne is just acne there isn't
an underlying hormonal condition you
don't have a hormonal imbalance you
don't have a fancy medical condition
with an acronym like PCOS you don't have
anything wrong with your thyroid
sometimes your emotional problems are
just emotional problems and they're not
the result of a hormonal imbalance
sometimes your bad behavior should be
defined and addressed and discussed just
as behavior just as ultimately decisions
you make that you're responsible for and
it's very dangerous and misleading to
assign those decisions to a medicalised
condition that you think of almost like
somebody other than yourself
almost as if somebody else is making
those decisions because you think that's
not me it's my depression or that's not
me it's my hormonal problem or something
and no I mean on the contrary there's a
very real sense in which you are your
hormones the difference being I mean if
you really have a physical condition a
physically real medically real hormone
condition that could be cured but in
Melissa's case she doesn't have a
condition like that
and she never did so I feel this is not
long story short I think this is really
a short story but it's one that really
had dramatic twists in terms for us day
by day we made a very quick trip from
Taiwan to Thailand and even if you guys
were watching every YouTube video you
might not have noticed I mean the the
background changed right now I'm filming
in a hotel room you know briefly instead
of being in one apartment I was in a
hotel room but there wasn't a big impact
here and there was my my social media
presence or my youtube channel we went
to Thailand it was a short enough trip
that I didn't switch from studying
Chinese - speaking Thai in studying Thai
and so it was meant to be a short trip
we went over and visited a hospital very
elite fancy expensive hospital great
architecture great interior decor and
also extremely highly organized so we
went to the hospital we saw one
specialist they immediately referred
Melissa to another specialist so we
weren't there to inquire about the state
of our acne they looked at her acne and
said well you got to see the hormone
specialist one from the hormone
specialist - getting an ultrasound on
your ovaries and so very quickly Minh
that were very very well organized
referrals from one department to another
I've never seen a hospital work that
well but unfortunately the sense of
which the hospital didn't work well was
that all of the diagnoses were false so
they were really quickly rushing ahead
to a conclusion that she did have a
hormone imbalance problem and that the
homeless the hormone balance problem was
most likely PCOS polycystic ovarian
syndrome so that changed all of our
plans we immediately booked a flight for
Melissa to go back to the United States
without me to go back alone that I would
stay in Taiwan alone this was a huge you
know twist in our relationship because I
had only moved to Taiwan in the first
place for Melissa for the good of the
relationship and also as an educational
opportunity for her to learn Chinese it
wasn't what I wanted to be doing with my
time I wanted Shivan with her time there
were a few other considerations in
relation to when I visit my daughter
and things there were a few other things
but really it was for Melissa that we
moved to Taiwan the night that I made
that sacrifice and now all of a sudden
here I was marooned in Taiwan alone in
an apartment we had just rented up with
a brand new fridge brand new footage we
had just bought and Melissa jump ship to
go back the United States to get more
blood tests done to visit all the same
specialists and more visit a whole
series of specialists at this point in
ten states must has had every single
possible test
it's boring guys because the results for
all of them were normal normal normal
normal so it's not just the blood tests
that we're normal some people want to
leave the conclusion oh well your
hormones can be linked to the microbes
in your digestive tract it could be a
digestive room nope the gestured is
normal she got those tests done well you
even had brain test she even a tab right
she had an MRI
she had MRI scan of her brain so brain
blood bowels hormones absolutely
everything God checked and the end of
the story is sometimes acne is just acne
her acne problem is nothing other than
acne and in her case not only is her
acne not cured by a vegan diet it was
made worse by the vegan diet not only is
her acne not cured by Nina and randa's
special vegan diet which is a zero oil
zero not zero seed vegan diet extremely
low fat and then if it doesn't work for
you at first it gets more and more
extreme and it's low fat recommendations
it starts off not that extreme then
there are more and more restrictions as
it goes that diet made her acne worse
not better so
as I say the most dramatic twist and
turn at least for me I think I think for
Melissa also was the emergence of an
excuse for the bad behavior from Melissa
that in the past has repeatedly torn
this relationship apart so all of a
sudden there was this convenient
appealing possibility maybe it was a
hormone problem maybe it was a thyroid
problem and again whether or not you
think about that in terms of excuse or
blame oh wow if that could be cured then
maybe our relationship would be able to
proceed and B would be way better with
that taken out of the picture so you had
the apparition of such an excuse emerge
and then you got the fundamentally good
news I mean it is good news there's
nothing wrong with your hormones nothing
wrong with any of the organs of your
body there's nothing wrong with your
lymph nodes there's nothing wrong with
your brain there's nothing wrong with
your digestion there's nothing wrong
with your thyroid system nothing there's
nothing wrong with you but now you got
even more direct responsibility guess
what
you are just an axle when you're mean to
your boyfriend yeah it's on you
guess what you just made some bad
choices in life I'm adding the sin from
a different camera angle on a second
take obviously after watching the
original the original footage factor
plus it's good to laugh with the stuff
it's certainly good if you can within a
relationship you know to relax left for
this stuff but there's no doubt that
blame and personal responsibility is
about the hardest thing for people to
relax and have left out most of us
develop excuse making habits of mind in
early childhood we have some hilarious
examples with my own daughter so a lone
daughter at age five broke a plate and
absolutely insisted that she wasn't the
one who broke the plate it was the step
there was a
it was the step and you know I said
yesterday uh you know you should
apologize to the nice lady that you
broke her plate no it wasn't me it was
the step the step shut up
it was a real reminder of how you no
excuse making becomes a deep-seated
behavior becomes a baby we're passionate
about you know
um at an early age and I think it's
really difficult for people to unravel
excuse making behavior in their personal
lives even in their political lives I
mean it at all levels the difference
between excuses and what things really
are look
are there other circumstances that
explain Melissa's behavior yes are they
excuses no so just real quick like two
quick examples well but I mean these
really do well relate to these issues of
like hormones and what have you you know
I can remember a couple cases where
Melissa was in brief abusive to me at an
airport she treated me like [ __ ] an
airport for no reason we weren't having
a fight out of the blue tonight and you
can look at that and say like well you
know being in airports a stressful
situation you gotta get you yeah it's
part of the context but it's not an
excuse and guess what I want a
girlfriend who's capable of you know
going to an airport without freaking
well if it's me for no reason and if
that's an unreasonable expectation on my
part okay you know fine I'm still gonna
break up with you and move on and find
someone who can who can cope with that
level of stress I mean was it wasn't an
extreme losest you know you can talk
about that one I mean the problem there
is one of attitude you know like right
we were at an airport understand that
there's certain stresses involved but
you still have to treat me with dignity
and respect even though we're in this
airport right now
if yes hypothetically Melissa had a
hormone problem and it's now interesting
because we can talk about it
hypothetically and we know it's false if
the problem was that during these years
Melissa had some kind of hormone problem
then you see something similar like well
look that may make it more difficult for
you to behave in a way towards me that's
respectful or so
but guess what you still got to do it
it's still on you it's still your choice
it's still your responsibility it's
still your fault it's still on you with
whatever hormones you I thought hormones
- everybody's got hormones everybody's
got to cope with their own hormones
everybody's got to cope with you know
little situations like pulling your
luggage around an airport and the point
is to treat me with dignity and respect
and of course I have to treat you with
dignity and respect also which is sorry
not just that dignity respect being
loving being kind I mean love and
kindness
you know these things not just as
abstractions but being loving being kind
to the other person you know now for me
at age 40 it's very easy for me to be
like that towards Melissa and full
disclosure I was not that good at it
back when I was like 25 I wasn't you
know I got better I've got better at all
those skills with age and experience and
what-have-you other girlfriend's didn't
have quite so I was better looking when
I was younger but you know in other ways
other girl friends had more of judgment
and look the ultimate set of
circumstances the airport some of us
never get out of is our experience being
raised by our own parents you know I've
met and spent time with Melissa's
parents and it's very obvious that some
of her behaviors and expectations and so
on come straight out of that you know
that childhood she grew up in and the
way her parents act towards each other
and the way they act towards her and
what they consider a normal conversation
you know okay
but guess what you know now you're 26
years old and it's on you you don't get
to blame the airport you don't get to
blame your hormones you don't get to
blame your parents it's not just that
it's like 50% on you you're 26 years old
you're an adult these are your choices
and you are the one with the
consequences it's actually it's actually
a 100% on you you know so it
hypothetically it doesn't matter if your
parents were the worst parents in the
world
you know ultimately this is now on your
shoulders and you at least have to take
that attitude and I for my part in the
relationship
I also have to say look you know I have
to make this decision I have to draw the
line and say no you can't treat me this
way if you cross this line I'm leaving
you that's the end the relationship
here are my expectations here's here's
what I require in terms of human decency
kindness love treating me with respect
and you know if you can't do that you
can blame your parents you can blame
your hormones
you can blame hauling your luggage
around the airport but ultimately it's
irrelevant ultimately that's just the
childish the childish excuse making part
of your mind
that all of us all of us I think have an
obligation to overcome as adults and
that brings us back to the Big Lake
motif in this video thinking about
medicalizing your problems then using
that as an excuse making motive mode of
thought and action so since the last
video you know discussing the state of
the relationship we broke up again and
we talked it through and we've now
gotten back together again we're going
to be separated for at least six months
by the course of this you know medical
treatment it's a real trial for for all
participants
[Laughter]
you know I think this issue of wanting
to believe in a diagnosis as something
other than who you are I think the final
irony is that people want to think about
love itself that way - that's maybe the
ultimate example of a literary
convention of a poetic idea of a meme or
a trope in literature that people come
to think of as something other than than
Who I am you know there's me and then
there are my feelings for you or there's
there's the fact that we're in love or
there's the or even there's just the
relationship thought of is something
other than than Who I am and and the
choices I make you know we've gotten
back together again with the promise
from Melissa that she understands who
she is better than she did before that
she understands the problems in the
relationship other than she did before
when we met you were 24 years old right
now you're 26 no one could deny that the
last two and a half years have been a
period of intense growth and a lot of a
lot of personal changes for you and you
know again I've been convinced to to
give you another chance but we're now
gonna go into a very very peculiar phase
the relationship where she's gonna be
undergoing medical treatment for acne
just acne in the United States and our
relationship we may collaborate on
YouTube videos together but it's going
to be entirely via Skype it's gonna be
entirely by email for at least six
months for quite a long time this is
going to be a long-distance relationship
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know